Document SAML APIs (#45105)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/rest-api/security/saml-invalidate-api.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[security-api-saml-invalidate]]
=== SAML invalidate API

> Submits a SAML LogoutRequest message to {es} for consumption. 

Reviewer: As above, some text for _"you are only interested in this page if you are writing a web application that wants to use SAML authentication against ES"_.

[[security-api-saml-invalidate-request]]
==== {api-request-title}

`POST /_security/saml/invalidate`

[[security-api-saml-invalidate-desc]]
==== {api-description-title}

The logout request comes from the SAML IdP during an IdP initiated Single Logout.
After successful validation of the request, {es} invalidates the access token
and refresh token that corresponds to that specific SAML principal and provides
a URL that contains a SAML LogoutResponse message, so that the user can be
redirected back to their IdP.

{es} exposes all the necessary SAML related functionality via the SAML APIs.
These APIs are used internally by {kib} in order to provide SAML based
authentication, but can also be used by other custom web applications or other
clients. See also <<security-api-saml-authenticate,SAML authenticate API>>,
<<security-api-saml-prepare-authentication,SAML prepare authentication API>>,
and <<security-api-saml-logout,SAML logout API>>.

[[security-api-saml-invalidate-request-body]]
==== {api-request-body-title}

`acs`::

>   (string) The Assertion Consumer Service URL that matches the one of the SAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Optional, string) The Assertion Consumer Service URL that matches the one of the SAML
```

>   realm in {es} that should be used. Either this or `realm` should be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  realm in {es} that should be used. You must specify either this parameter or the `realm` parameter.
```

`queryString`:: 

>   (string) The query part of the URL that the user was redirected to by the SAML

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Required, string) The query part of the URL that the user was redirected to by the SAML
```

  IdP to initiate the Single Logout. This query should include a single
  parameter named `SAMLRequest` that contains a SAML logout request that is
  deflated and Base64 encoded. If the SAML IdP has signed the logout request, 
  the URL should include two extra parameters named `SigAlg` and `Signature`
  that contain the algorithm used for the signature and the signature value

>   itself.

Reviewer: Per the SAML HTTP-Redirect spec, the Signature must be the last parameter in the query string (we strip it off in order to get the original text on which to perform signature verification), and in order to get the right signature the query string needs to be a _verbatim_ copy of what was received from the browser, it cannot be reconstructed from a parsed URL.

I think it's worth saying something along those lines here.

```suggestion
  itself. In order for {es} to be able to verify the IdP's signature, the value
  of the queryString field must be an exact match to the string provided
  by the browser. The client application must not attempt to parse or 
  process the string in any way.
```

`realm`::

>   (string) The name of the SAML realm in {es} the configuration. Either this or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  (Optional, string) The name of the SAML realm in {es} the configuration. You must specify
```

>   `acs` should be specified.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  either this parameter or the `acs` parameter.
```

[[security-api-saml-invalidate-response-body]]
==== {api-response-body-title}  

`invalidated`::

>   The number of tokens that were invalidated as part of this logout.

Reviewer 2: I wasn't sure what the data type for this was:
```suggestion
  (integer) The number of tokens that were invalidated as part of this logout.
```

`realm`:: 

>   The realm name of the SAML realm in {es} that authenticated the user.

Reviewer 2: The example didn't contain quotes so I wasn't sure what this data type was:
```suggestion
  (string) The realm name of the SAML realm in {es} that authenticated the user.
```

The following example invalidates all the tokens for realm `saml1` pertaining to
the user that is identified in the SAML Logout Request:

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/saml/invalidate
{
  "queryString" : "SAMLRequest=nZFda4MwFIb%2FiuS%2BmviRpqFaClKQdbvo2g12M2KMraCJ9cRR9utnW4Wyi13sMie873MeznJ1aWrnS3VQGR0j4mLkKC1NUeljjA77zYyhVbIE0dR%2By7fmaHq7U%2BdegXWGpAZ%2B%2F4pR32luBFTAtWgUcCv56%2Fp5y30X87Yz1khTIycdgpUW9kY7WdsC9zxoXTvMvWuVV98YyMnSGH2SYE5pwALBIr9QKiwDGpW0oGVUznGeMyJZKFkQ4jBf5HnhUymjIhzCAL3KNFihbYx8TBYzzGaY7EnIyZwHzCWMfiDnbRIftkSjJr%2BFu0e9v%2B0EgOquRiiZjKpiVFp6j50T4WXoyNJ%2FEWC9fdqc1t%2F1%2B2F3aUpjzhPiXpqMz1%2FHSn4A&SigAlg=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.w3.org%2F2001%2F04%2Fxmldsig-more%23rsa-sha256&Signature=MsAYz2NFdovMG2mXf6TSpu5vlQQyEJAg%2B4KCwBqJTmrb3yGXKUtIgvjqf88eCAK32v3eN8vupjPC8LglYmke1ZnjK0%2FKxzkvSjTVA7mMQe2AQdKbkyC038zzRq%2FYHcjFDE%2Bz0qISwSHZY2NyLePmwU7SexEXnIz37jKC6NMEhus%3D",
  "realm" : "saml1"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[skip:handled in IT]

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
{
  "redirect" : "https://my-idp.org/logout/SAMLResponse=....",
  "invalidated" : 2,

>   "realm" : saml1,

Reviewer 2: Should this be in quotes?
```suggestion
  "realm" : saml1,
```
```suggestion
  "realm" : saml1,
```
```suggestion
  "realm" : saml1
```

>   "realm" : saml1,

Reviewer 2: Should this be in quotes?:
```suggestion
  "realm" : "saml1"
```
